MulticlassNms-8 spec. (#5907)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/ops/sort/MulticlassNMS_8.md

*   **2**: `scores` - tensor of type *T* and shape `[num_batches, num_classes, num_boxes]` with box scores. Required.

*   **3**: `nms_top_k` - scalar or 1D tensor with 1 element of type *T_MAX_BOXES* specifying maximum number of boxes to be selected per class. Optional with default value 0 meaning select no boxes.

*   **4**: `iou_threshold` - scalar or 1D tensor with 1 element of type *T_THRESHOLDS* specifying intersection over union threshold. Optional with default value 0 meaning keep all boxes.

*   **5**: `score_threshold` - scalar or 1D tensor with 1 element of type *T_THRESHOLDS* specifying minimum score to consider box for the processing. Optional with default value 0.

*   **6**:  `background_class` - scalar or 1D tensor with 1 element of type *T_IND* specifying the background class index. Optional with default value -1 meaning keep all classes.

*   **7**:  `keep_top_k` - scalar or 1D tensor with 1 element of type *T_MAX_BOXES* specifying maximum number of boxes to be selected per batch element. Optional with default value -1 meaning keep all boxes.

> *   **8**:  `nms_eta` - scalar or 1D tensor with 1 element of type *T_THRESHOLDS* specifying eta parameter for adpative NMS. Optional with default value 1.0.

Reviewer: Consider changing some inputs to be attributes.

Author: This kind of NMS so far only find existing in framework PDPD. And all these are attributes. So I moved all them there.

*   **2**: `selected_indices` - tensor of type *T_IND* and shape `[number of selected boxes, ]` the selected indices in the flattened `boxes`, which are absolute values cross batches.

*   **3**: `selected_num` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* and shape `[num_batches, ]` representing the number of selected boxes for each batch element.

When there is no box selected, `selected_num` will be filled with 0. And both `selected_outputs` and `selected_indices` are null of shape (0,).

**Types**

* *T*: floating point type.

* *T_MAX_BOXES*: integer type.

* *T_THRESHOLDS*: floating point type.

* *T_IND*: `int64` or `int32`.

**Example 1**

```xml
<layer ... type="MulticlassNms" ... >
    <data sort_result_byclass="1" output_type="i64"/>
    <input>
        <port id="0">
            <dim>3</dim>
            <dim>100</dim>
            <dim>4</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="1">
            <dim>3</dim>
            <dim>5</dim>
            <dim>100</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="2"/>
        <port id="3"/>
        <port id="4"/>

>     </input>

Reviewer: Correct number of inputs

    <output>
        <port id="5" precision="FP32">

>             <dim>?</dim>

Reviewer: Please, replace ? with -1

##  MulticlassNms<a name="MulticlassNms"></a> {#openvino_docs_ops_sort_MulticlassNms_8}

**Versioned name**: *MulticlassNms-8*

**Category**: *Sorting and maximization*

> **Short description**: *MulticlassNms* performs multi-class non maximum suppression of the boxes with predicted scores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Short description**: *MulticlassNms* performs multi-class non-maximum suppression of the boxes with predicted scores.
```

> **Detailed description**: *MulticlassNms* is a multi-phase operation. It performs non maximum suppression algorithm as described below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Detailed description**: *MulticlassNms* is a multi-phase operation. It implements non-maximum suppression algorithm as described below:
```

1.  Let `B = [b_0,...,b_n]` be the list of initial detection boxes, `S = [s_0,...,s_N]` be  the list of corresponding scores.
2.  Let `D = []` be an initial collection of resulting boxes. Let `adaptive_threshold = iou_threshold`.

> 3.  If `B` is empty then go to step 9.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3.  If `B` is empty, go to step 9.
```

4.  Take the box with highest score. Suppose that it is the box `b` with the score `s`.
5.  Delete `b` from `B`.

> 6.  If the score `s` is greater or equal than `score_threshold`  then add `b` to `D` else go to step 9.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6.  If the score `s` is greater than or equal to `score_threshold`,  add `b` to `D`, else go to step 9.
```

7.  If `nms_eta < 1` and `adaptive_threshold > 0.5`, update `adaptive_threshold *= nms_eta`.
8.  For each input box `b_i` from `B` and the corresponding score `s_i`, set `s_i = 0` when `iou(b, b_i) > adaptive_threshold`, and go to step 3.
9.  Return `D`, a collection of the corresponding scores `S`, and the number of elements in `D`.

This algorithm is applied independently to each class of each batch element. The total number of output boxes for each class must not exceed `nms_top_k`. Boxes of `background_class` are skipped and thus eliminated. After NMS step, it selects at most `keep_top_k` scoring candidate boxes per batch element.

**Attributes**:

* *sort_result*

>   * **Description**: *sort_result* specifiy order of output elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * **Description**: *sort_result* specifies the order of output elements.
```

  * **Range of values**: `class`, `score`, `none`

>     * *class* - sort selected boxes by class id (ascending) in each batch element.

Author: additional? you mean 2 attributes related to sort? @lazarevevgeny

>     * *class* - sort selected boxes by class id (ascending) in each batch element.

Reviewer: Yes. One more attribute "sort_result_descending" with two possible values: True or False.

>     * *class* - sort selected boxes by class id (ascending) in each batch element.

Author: I changed the name "sort_result_descending" to "sort_result_across_batch". 
This attribute will work togther with "sort_result" - it specify the working domain of sort, while "sort_result" specify the sort type.
So it is not only "descending" - When "sort_result" is "class", it is ascending. When "sort_result" is "score", it is descending.

    * *score* - sort selected boxes by score (descending) in each batch element.
    * *none* - do not guarantee the order in each batch element.
  * **Type**: `string`
  * **Default value**: `none`
  * **Required**: *No*

* *output_type*

>   * **Description**: the output tensor type

Author: I keep the name "output_type" here as it is used by "NonMaxSuppression" as well.

  * **Required**: *No*

* *score_threshold*

  * **Description**: minimum score to consider box for the processing.
  * **Range of values**: a floating-point number
  * **Type**: `float`
  * **Default value**: `0`
  * **Required**: *No*

* *nms_top_k*

  * **Description**: maximum number of boxes to be selected per class.
  * **Range of values**: an integer starting from `-1`.
  * **Type**: `int`
  * **Default value**: `-1` meaning to keep all boxes
  * **Required**: *No*

* *keep_top_k*

  * **Description**: maximum number of boxes to be selected per batch element.
  * **Range of values**: an integer starting from `-1`.
  * **Type**: `int`
  * **Default value**: `-1` meaning to keep all boxes
  * **Required**: *No*

* *background_class*

  * **Description**: the background class id.
  * **Range of values**: an integer from `-1` to the maximum class id
  * **Type**: `int`
  * **Default value**: `-1` meaning to keep all classes
  * **Required**: *No*

* *nms_eta*

  * **Description**: eta parameter for adpative NMS.
  * **Range of values**: a floating-point number in close range `[0, 1.0]`.
  * **Type**: `float`
  * **Default value**: `1.0`
  * **Required**: *No*

**Inputs**:

> *   **1**: `boxes` - tensor of type *T* and shape `[num_batches, num_boxes, 4]` with box coordinates. he box cooridnates are layout as `[xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax]`. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*   **1**: `boxes` - tensor of type *T* and shape `[num_batches, num_boxes, 4]` with box coordinates. The box coordinates are layout as `[xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax]`. Required.
```

> *   **1**: `boxes` - tensor of type *T* and shape `[num_batches, num_boxes, 4]` with box coordinates. he box cooridnates are layout as `[xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax]`. Required.

Author: Is there any unified specification about the format? I checked, most Op has no decoration to "Required". Only a small part of Ops decorated to "*Required*". Single "*" wrap.

> *   **1**: `boxes` - tensor of type *T* and shape `[num_batches, num_boxes, 4]` with box coordinates. he box cooridnates are layout as `[xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax]`. Required.

Reviewer: Currently we do revise operations specification and as part of this process the "Required" is wrapped with double "*". Refer https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/5813/files for the example

*   **2**: `scores` - tensor of type *T* and shape `[num_batches, num_classes, num_boxes]` with box scores. Required.

**Outputs**:

> *   **1**: `selected_outputs` - tensor of type *T_THRESHOLDS* and shape `[number of selected boxes, 6]` containing the selected boxes with score and class as triplets `[class_id, box_score, xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax]`.

Reviewer: "triplets" -> "tuples"

*   **2**: `selected_indices` - tensor of type *T_IND* and shape `[number of selected boxes, ]` the selected indices in the flattened `boxes`, which are absolute values cross batches.

*   **3**: `selected_num` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* and shape `[num_batches, ]` representing the number of selected boxes for each batch element.

> When there is no box selected, `selected_num` will be filled with 0. And both `selected_outputs` and `selected_indices` are null of shape (0,).

Reviewer: "are null of shape (0,)." -> "are empty tensors with one of dimensions equal to `0`."

> When there is no box selected, `selected_num` will be filled with 0. And both `selected_outputs` and `selected_indices` are null of shape (0,).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When there is no box selected, `selected_num` is filled with 0. And both `selected_outputs` and `selected_indices` are null of shape (0,).
```

* *keep_top_k*

  * **Description**: maximum number of boxes to be selected per batch element.
  * **Range of values**: an integer
  * **Type**: `int`
  * **Default value**: `-1` meaning to keep all boxes
  * **Required**: *No*

* *background_class*

  * **Description**: the background class id.
  * **Range of values**: an integer
  * **Type**: `int`
  * **Default value**: `-1` meaning to keep all classes.
  * **Required**: *No*

* *nms_eta*

  * **Description**: eta parameter for adaptive NMS.
  * **Range of values**: a floating-point number in close range `[0, 1.0]`.
  * **Type**: `float`
  * **Default value**: `1.0`
  * **Required**: *No*

**Inputs**:

*   **1**: `boxes` - tensor of type *T* and shape `[num_batches, num_boxes, 4]` with box coordinates. The box coordinates are layout as `[xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax]`. **Required.**

*   **2**: `scores` - tensor of type *T* and shape `[num_batches, num_classes, num_boxes]` with box scores. **Required.**

**Outputs**:

*   **1**: `selected_outputs` - tensor of type *T_THRESHOLDS* and shape `[number of selected boxes, 6]` containing the selected boxes with score and class as tuples `[class_id, box_score, xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax]`.

> *   **2**: `selected_indices` - tensor of type *T_IND* and shape `[number of selected boxes, 1]` the selected indices in the flattened `boxes`, which are absolute values cross batches. Therefore possible valid values are in the range [0, num_batches * num_boxes -1].

Reviewer: Wrap `[0, num_batches * num_boxes -1]` with "`" characters and add one space character before the "1".

Author: okay. 
another question is about `[number of selected boxes, 1]`. Do you think if `[number of selected boxes]` is better? @lazarevevgeny

Reviewer: Yes. I think that trailing `1` looks awkward.

> *   **2**: `selected_indices` - tensor of type *T_IND* and shape `[number of selected boxes, 1]` the selected indices in the flattened `boxes`, which are absolute values cross batches. Therefore possible valid values are in the range [0, num_batches * num_boxes -1].

Reviewer: Why do we need a value "1" in the output shape? May be we can set it to just `[number of selected boxes]`? During translation from PDPD to OpenVINO we can insert Unsqueeze operation. Also, currently we have an inconsistency in the shape in the XML example below (output shape is `[-1]`), this line and line 118 where `selected_indices` shape is specified as `(0, 1)`

Author: @lazarevevgeny  think twice. I am afraid I have to leave shape of `selected_indices` of `[number of selected boxes, 1]`.  The reason is, 
1. Talked with Baidu, they insist they need shape similar to Paddle.
2. We cannot solve this by insert Unsqueeze after NMS because of dynamic shape issue. I am afraid Unsqueeze can handle dynamic shape input. For now we have to make sure NMS is the last layer in the ngraph function.

Author: all other change requests are resolved except this shape issue.

*   **3**: `selected_num` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* and shape `[num_batches, ]` representing the number of selected boxes for each batch element.

> When there is no box selected, `selected_num` is filled with 0. `selected_outputs` is an empty tensor of shape (0, 6), and `selected_indices` is an empty tensor of shape (0, 1).

Reviewer: We specify shapes using `[]` and wrapped with "`" characters.

> ##  MulticlassNms<a name="MulticlassNms"></a> {#openvino_docs_ops_sort_MulticlassNms_8}

Reviewer: Update `ie_docs.xml` file as in the https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/5773

1.  Let `B = [b_0,...,b_n]` be the list of initial detection boxes, `S = [s_0,...,s_N]` be  the list of corresponding scores.
2.  Let `D = []` be an initial collection of resulting boxes. Let `adaptive_threshold = iou_threshold`.
3.  If `B` is empty then go to step 9.
4.  Take the box with highest score. Suppose that it is the box `b` with the score `s`.
5.  Delete `b` from `B`.
6.  If the score `s` is greater or equal than `score_threshold`  then add `b` to `D` else go to step 9.
7.  If `nms_eta < 1` and `adaptive_threshold > 0.5`, update `adaptive_threshold *= nms_eta`.
8.  For each input box `b_i` from `B` and the corresponding score `s_i`, set `s_i = 0` when `iou(b, b_i) > adaptive_threshold`, and go to step 3.
9.  Return `D`, a collection of the corresponding scores `S`, and the number of elements in `D`.

This algorithm is applied independently to each class of each batch element. The total number of output boxes for each class must not exceed `nms_top_k`. Boxes of `background_class` are skipped and thus eliminated. After NMS step, it selects at most `keep_top_k` scoring candidate boxes per batch element.

**Attributes**:

> * *sort_result_byclass*

Reviewer: add `_` character between "by" and "class".

Or may be we should create a more generic attribute like in docs/ops/sort/TopK_3.md specification to specify the sort field?

            <dim>4</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="1">
            <dim>3</dim>
            <dim>5</dim>
            <dim>100</dim>
        </port>
    </input>
    <output>
        <port id="5" precision="FP32">
            <dim>-1</dim>
            <dim>6</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="6" precision="I64">
            <dim>-1</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="7" precision="I64">
            <dim>3</dim>
        </port>
    </output>
</layer>
```

**Example 2 No output**

```xml
<layer ... type="MulticlassNms" ... >
    <data sort_result_byclass="1" output_type="i64" score_threshold="2.0"/> <!-- Here set 2.0 to test the case there is no outputs. -->
    <input>
        <port id="0">
            <dim>3</dim>
            <dim>100</dim>
            <dim>4</dim>
        </port>
        <port id="1">
            <dim>3</dim>
            <dim>5</dim>
            <dim>100</dim>
        </port>
    </input>
    <output>
        <port id="5" precision="FP32"> <!-- no outputs. -->
        </port>
        <port id="6" precision="I64">
        </port>
        <port id="7" precision="I64">
            <dim>3</dim>
        </port>
    </output>
</layer>

> ```

Reviewer: Please, remove this example, since it is covered by the previous case.
